✅ Approach:
The Classroom Tutor Agent (EduBot) was built with the goal of providing subject-wise intelligent tutoring through a simple, interactive chat interface. The approach combines RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation) using local documents and a local LLM (Gemma 2B via Ollama) to ensure data privacy and offline functionality.

Key Steps in the Approach:
Document Preprocessing:

Subject-specific .txt files are added to a /data folder (e.g., math.txt, science.txt).

These documents are embedded using SentenceTransformer and stored in ChromaDB for fast vector search.

Subject Routing:

User selects a subject via the frontend.

The backend maps each subject to its respective ChromaDB collection.

Question Handling:

When a user asks a question, it is embedded and matched against stored vectors.

Top relevant context snippets are retrieved from ChromaDB.

Answer Generation:

The retrieved context and the question are passed to a local LLM (Gemma 2B via Ollama) for answer generation.

Hint and Feedback Logic:

If a student gives a wrong answer or struggles, the system provides contextual hints.

Progress tracking is implemented to monitor how many answers were correct/incorrect.

Frontend Interface:

Built with Streamlit, the UI mimics a chatbot and includes subject selection, chat history, and hint support.



🚀 Usage:
Follow these steps to run the Classroom Tutor Agent on your local machine:

1. Clone the repository

git clone https://github.com/your-username/EduBot.git
cd EduBot

2. Install dependencies
Install all required Python packages:

pip install -r requirements.txt
Make sure you have Ollama installed and running locally with Gemma 2B pulled:

ollama pull gemma:2b

3. Add Learning Material
Add .txt files (like math.txt, science.txt) inside the /data folder.
Each file represents a subject and should contain structured learning content.

4. Run Backend
Navigate to the backend folder and run:

python backend.py
This will start the backend API (usually on http://localhost:8000/ask).

5. Launch Frontend (Streamlit UI)
In a new terminal, go to the frontend folder and run:

streamlit run app.py
The UI will open in your browser. Select a subject, ask questions, and get interactive answers and hints.

🤖 LLM & Embedding Model Requirements

Local LLM via Ollama:
Ollama must be installed and running:

You must pull the model

  ollama pull gemma:2b

Embedding Model:
Uses all-MiniLM-L6-v2 from SentenceTransformers:

  SentenceTransformer('all-MiniLM-L6-v2')

